>> Brian Holt: Down here, we have init,
right, we call the init function.
And the all the in function
does is query the selector for
the calc-buttons,
which is everything in here.
And adds an event listener
at the top level, right?
Every time that click happens on one of
these buttons, it sends off an event.
And we're passing the event.target, which
is gonna be whatever button we pressed.
And it's gonna pass to the innerText,
so 3 or C or back arrow,
all that kinda stuff,
into our buttonClick function.
Okay, with me so far?
Let's go to our buttonClick function.
We just ask, is this a number?
Or rather we're asking
is this not a number?
Which I recognize is, and you can also
totally do, is this not not a number?
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: You can really put as many
as you want, is this not not not a number?
Just totally pointless, ignore me.
I'm just making shit up now.
Okay, so if this is not a number,
then handleSymbol, right,
because it's not a number.
If it is a number,
then handleNumber, okay?
So let's do the numbers
first because that's easier.
If you go down to handleNumber,
wherever that may lie.
>> Brian Holt: handleMath,
flushOperations, handleNumber,
there it is.
If it's a 0, we just assign it
to be whatever that buffer is,
the buffer essentially to be that number.
Otherwise you just tack it onto the end,
okay?
Otherwise up here we go to handleSymbol.
If it's a C, that means clear, we're
gonna do a switch based on that symbol.
If it's an equal, then we do the math,
we show that to the user, and
then we break up here.
Otherwise, we're gonna math, right?
So we go into handleMath.
If the buffer is 0, then we do nothing.
Otherwise we're gonna
check to see if it's 0.
If that's it, then we're gonna
send it to the running total.
Otherwise, we're gonna
go to flushOperations.
Which is going to do either the math,
the subtract, or times.
A big key here, even if you're doing like
&times in your dock, this is going to be.
By the time it gets to this
point in the function,
it's gonna be this little multiply sign,
okay?
So either way, you still have to
have this be the multiply sign.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we're
either doing addition, subtraction,
multiplication, or division based
on what the user pressed, okay?
Back up here, in previousOperator,
we gonna keep the previous
symbol that they just gave us.
We're gonna assign the buffer to 0 and
we're gonna keep going.
>> Brian Holt: Good, does that
whole flow kinda make some sense?
Sometimes it's kinda useful to
mentally walk through your program.
So we're getting there,
this is pretty close to done.
25 times 9 equals,
that's what we would expect.
And if we said 24 plus 3 plus 2,
all that kind of stuff,
that still all works.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I mean, this is not
gonna be a perfect calculator, right?
For example, if I hit 25 + 3 and I hit =,
and I put another number in there,
that's not typically
how a calculator work.
It would clear it out, but
there's a bunch more logic that
would have to go into doing that.
And for now, I'm happy to just say the
user should click Clear once they're done.
>> Brian Holt: You never realize how much
logic went into a calculator until you
have to build a damn calculator.
At least that was how it was for me.
It handles a bunch of state that
you're not even really thinking about.
We have one more thing to accomplish here,
and that is the back arrow.
>> Brian Holt: So
that is under handleSymbols.
We're gonna put it above the math ones.
It doesn't actually matter
what order these comes
in
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna find back arrow in here,
back arrow.
>> Brian Holt: Question is, there is so
many arrows, I think it's leftward arrows.
Hence the lar, right, leftward arrow
>> Brian Holt: Again,
I'm pretty sure you can copy and
paste that out of the DOM.
Or you can just search for
leftward arrow and copy and
paste that off of there as well.
Okay, so a leftward arrow, we expect,
let's see how I did it over here
in Building an HTML Calculator.
If someone clicks 25,
>> Brian Holt: Here we go,
25, and then I click back arrow,
you'd expect it to delete the 5, right?
Right, it goes back to 2 or back to 0.
>> Brian Holt: So how will we do that?
>> Brian Holt: Well, if buffer.length ===
1,
>> Brian Holt: Then so
if someone has 2 in there, and they click
the back arrow, you expect it to become 0.
So you're just gonna say buffer = '0',
else,
>> Brian Holt: buffer is going
to be whatever it was minus 1.
So equals buffer.substring,
>> Brian Holt: 0 to 1 shorter than it was,
buffer.length- 1.
>> Brian Holt: So if you remember,
substring takes a longer string and
returns to a smaller string.
So we're basically we're saying
is start at the beginning.
So if I have 250, and then go all
the way to the end, except 1, right?
So it says, that's what this
is buffer.length is gonna say,
stop 1 short of going
all the way to the end.
Make sure we have a break.
>> Brian Holt: Okay that is working.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
>> Brian Holt: This makes sense?
>> Brian Holt: What happens
if buffer is of length 0?
>> Brian Holt: It can't be, right?
It's always gonna be of length 1,
because the shortest that I ever
let it get is length 1, right?
Cuz it's always gonna be 0.
So if buffer.length, or if buffer is 0,
that means its length is gonna be 1.
And that way it just
reassigned itself to be 0.
So we don't have to worry
about that particular case.
So these are the only two
cases that we can have.
Hopefully this was hard, right?
But you at least grasped the concepts
that were going on here.
So if I had asked you to do this by
yourself today, you would have the tools.
I don't think you've learned too
much that's brand new from this.
But you could have done it
if I given you enough time.
If I had said, hey,
you have two weeks to build this,
you could've gotten there, right?
Hopefully you can at least
feel that way about it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, questions
before we move on from calculator?
This is as much as we're gonna do on this.
You're welcome to go on and code jam
on this later and add more features and
maybe add decimals and stuff like that.
Good luck, but [LAUGH] decimals and
JavaScript don't go together super well.
>> Brian Holt: But yeah, this is another
piece that you can kinda throw into your
portfolio.
It's like, check out this
cool calculator that I built.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions before we
move on to the project for the day?
>> Brian Holt: Please.
>> Speaker 3: How do you get into thinking
about it where you have to divide things
up into smaller things?
Because when I was following along,
it seems like it's easy.
But if you give me on my own,
it'd be like this big thing is crazy.
Are there some resource that
teach you how to solve problems?
>> Brian Holt: I don't
know if I have a resource.
I think it just comes from
practice of knowing like where
good divisions are to draw.
Kind of a good litmus test for
that, I suppose would be, if it's
really hard to name your function, it's
probably doing too many things, right?
So like this buttonClick thing.
If I was trying to put all
the symbol logic in here, and
all the number of logic in here,
that's gonna get enormous, right?
If your functions start getting
longer than like 60 lines of code,
that's gonna be tough to maintain.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
definitely [INAUDIBLE] cool thing, right?
>> Brian Holt: For sure.
>> Speaker 4: Watching Brian code this
is a fantastic point of reference.
The hard part of coding is
solving these problems yourself.
So when you're approaching a new problem,
and using code to solve it,
you'll get better at it.
And like Brian said,
practice on solving your own [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian Holt: Eventually, like for me,
cuz I'm an idiot and I can't learn from
other people, I have to learn from
making lots and lots of mistakes.
That's the best thing can do is
learn from other people's mistakes.
So you don't have to make them.
These functions just get
astronomically large.
They just become, if I'm trying to follow
how my program works, from start to end,
like we just did.
If it gets to be impossible, then you
probably have functions that are too long,
that are doing too many things.
But the general idea in the back of your
head that you should be thinking about
is a function should do one thing well.
>> Brian Holt: Does that
vaguely answer your question?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.